# I'm So Board
## 2.00b Final Toy Product, Spring 2020
### Introduction
This is my final product for 2.00b, Toy Product Design, which was re-structured to be a remote design challenge
after students were kicked off campus due to Coronavirus. Each student was shipped a kit of materials (plus a $20 giftcard) and tasked with creating a toy that would entertain the people quarantined with them on "their island." Embracing this theme, I decided to create a toy that could be played while watching Zoom lectures - a tedious part of my daily routine when classes became virtualized.
### Game Overview
I'm So Board is a wireless game console combining two competitive, two-player games designed to be played while watching Zoom lectures. The first game, Simon 2.0, is a twist on the classic memory game Simon, but with two colors and two players competing to see who fails first! The second game, Word Nerd, is drinking game-inspired, where each player races to hear the most words mentioned in their lecture.
### Toy Specifications and Gameplay
I'm So Board runs on an Arduino Uno. The two boards communicate wirelessly via NRF24L01 chips. Individual single-color LEDs light up to portray a pattern in Simon 2.0 and are also connected to buttons for the purpose of repeating the pattern. Each board also includes two additional buttons for controlling game aspects in Word Nerd. Each board also includes a screen –  a Monochrome 128x32 12C OLED graphic display or an LCD display (I did not have access to two of the same kind). The electronic components are contained on a breadboard, which is attached (along with the Arduino) to a balsa-wood base with screws. I also added a balsa-wood cover made from hot-glued balsa wood pieces to cover many of the wires. This cover includes a wooden dowel that acts as a push stick for the "reset" button the Arduino. To play the games, the code for either game just needs to be uploaded to the Arduino using a USB cord. The boards can run off a battery or remain plugged into the computer. Simon 2.0 can be restarted by pressing the "reset" button on the boards, and Word Nerd plays on a continuous loop. The game is meant to be played by players in separate rooms and will work over the given range of the NRF24L01 chips.
### Simon 2.0
#### Game Specifics
The two files needed to play Simon 2.0 are "simon_1" and "simon_2". "simon_1" is the first player in the game, and will begin by pressing either color LED to start the pattern. The second player receives this pattern as it flashes on their LEDs, repeats it by pressing the button corresponding to the correct color LED, and then adds one more color. Because of this, player 1 always receives even patterns and sends odd patterns, whereas player 2 is always receives odd patterns and sends even patterns. The game continues until a player repeats a pattern incorrectly, at which point their screen will flash a message saying "You lose dude," and the other player's screen will inform them that they have won by saying "Congrats winner!"
#### Code Specifics
"simon_1" was coded for a board with green and yellow LEDs and the Monochrome OLED graphic display, whereas "simon_2" is meant for a board with red and blue LEDs and an LCD display. The files therefore include different libraries and pin constants. All of these constants can be easily adjusted at the top of the file. The pattern of LEDs cannot exceed 30 integers, which is the maximum length of a pattern in the classic game Simon, and this number is specificed as the length of the text array.

The two files have a different loop structure for gameplay – the outer loop of player 1 is the transmitter, where the pattern is displayed, the player inputs it, and the new pattern (with one added element) is sent to the opponent, and the inner loop is the receiver, where player 1 waits to receive a message from the opponent. The code for player 2 is the reverse, with the outer loop being the receiver and the inner being the transmitter.
#### Important Notes
When starting the games, it is good to have the boards at a close range. For some reason, the calibration of the two boards does not work as well at a far distance. The boards might need to be reset a few times, waiting some seconds in between, in order to successfully communicate the first pattern sequence. Once this sequence has been communicated, however, the boards shouldn't experience any additional lags, and patterns are sent almost instantaneously once they have been completed by either player.
#### Intended Improvements
As far as the game itself goes, the current version is pretty complete, but there are some small improvements I'd like to make. During playtesting, I discovered that it can be hard to keep track of when you've completed a pattern and if you still need to add another element. I plan to add a message on the screen displaying whether you have gotten the pattern correct or not. I might also add a score display to this message so players can keep track of their maximum-length pattern record. I'd also like to find a way to streamline the code so that the same file could be uploaded for either board (apart from the wiring differences), and have an option to select which board begins as player 1 and player 2.
### Word Nerd
#### Game Specifics
The two files needed to play Word Nerd are "word_nerd_1" and "word_nerd_2". Apart from differences in pin constants and the screens used for the boards, the code in the two files is exactly the same. The game begins as soon as the code is uploaded or the boards are reset. Each board shows a short intro message and then displays a word on the screen that each player is trying to listen for in their Zoom lecture. Players can choose to listen for this word, or switch words at any point during the game by pressing the button closest to the screen on the left. When they hear a word, players will press a large button on their board. The first player to reach 20 words wins.
#### Code Specifics
There are many elements of this game that are easily customizable in the code. For example, the word list needs to be pre-programmed before the game to fit the theme of the lecture. Users can do this by changing the variable named "wordlist."
#### Intended Improvements
